Hi, this is Eric Johnson. It's February 18th, 2021 and this is the engineering key review at GitLab. Um so I've got number four in the agenda, um which is a proposal to break up this meeting into four department key reviews. So currently this is engineering, um development, quality, security and UX. Uh infrastructure and um support do their own key reviews already. I have the reasons why increased visibility, able to go deeper, um, uh increase the objectivity with which my reports can manage their groups, allow me more time to focus on new markets and uh allow me to shift into more of a question ask mode than generating content and answering questions in these meetings. Um, and uh but to avoid adding three net new meetings to stakeholders calendars, I propose we do a sort of two month rotation. So month one, development quality go, month two, security and UX would go. How do people feel about that proposal?
I think in the group conversations it's working really well. Um, so I'm I'm supportive and uh this is the smallest thing, maybe we need four meetings a month, like it's the biggest department, it's super essential. But you propose this, I don't uh I could see either way, so let's stick with the proposal. Cool, we'll try it and we'll uh we can be flexible. I mean development is larger, maybe they go more frequently or something like that, but we'll see how it see how it goes. All right, and then uh I've got number five. Um, which is uh, we've got um R&D overall MR rate and we also have R&D wider MR rate both as uh top-level KPIs for engineering. So the difference between them in the simplest sense is that R&D wider MR rate includes both community contributions and community MRs. Um, the problems I see with this are that one, the wider MR rate, uh, the one that includes internal and external MRs, it duplicates the overall MR rate which is sorry sorry sorry. the wider MR rate should just be external, right? And then overall should be narrow plus wider. So like we say to wider community. Right, right, right. Okay. So there's I'll have to check the taxonomy.
Well Lily, can you uh can you confirm? So that's that's reasoning is my my understanding as well. Yeah, I believe water uh MR rate just captures community contributions only and no internal. Yeah, and the reason we measure that is that like one of the most likely failure modes is that we lose the community. Yeah. So we're gets Eric gets goofy is is the um when you look at a specific team within the company, there could be contributions outside of that that aren't community contributions. Uh they would be viewed community contributions by that group, but effectively, they're not from outside the company. So that's why we use wider to kind of reflect that. and narrow is very specific to the team. So are you saying that if uh someone in plan contributes to verify, it's viewed as wider. Not quite that. Uh plan, plan and verify are just fine. Uh it's when you look at uh like the development versus infrastructure. infrastructure will often times contribute to development's work but it won't be counted uh as MRs. Okay. that's a that's a potential bit of funkiness that we should talk about separately. I didn't have that in my sort of critique of this, but that that doesn't necessarily make intuitive sense to me. Um, so so then I think um part of my uh critique of this can be thrown out because it's not as duplicative as I thought. But I still think there's a problem with R&D wider MR rate, which is um this thing doesn't really move in part because it's a it's a rate. So it feels like the way to drive this up is to specifically drive community authors to contribute more than one MR per month. That's how this moves up because it's a it's a productivity rate like we use internally. and that doesn't necessarily feel like the right thing because there's scenarios in which this goes up, we've actually got less contributions overall and less contributors overall. Wait, wait, wait, wait a second. So you you're saying that R&D wider MR rate is number MRs per external contributor? Oh my goodness, that should not be the thing. It should be contributions per GitLab team member. So the contribu those the the thing above the division is the external ones. the thing below is the number of team members at GitLab. Is that the case, Lily? I'm checking right now. um I think so in our merge per team member. So unless we start calling people outside the company team member then it shouldn't be that. Yeah, just clarifying here. so our numerator is community contributions and then our uh denominator is uh GitLab team members. So it's not per external um member. So we so what we're doing there Eric is we're we're not trying to say how many how many MRs does someone sent if they send something? We're saying how many MRs from external do we get for the size of our organization. Sorry, have a childhood emergency outside the door. Um So so the maybe explain the context behind this. The context is as we grow as a company, we should make sure we we keep the community up. Like the logical thing is for the community to flat line and the size of the org to go and before you know it, you've kind of outgrown the wider community. Yeah, and what I'm seeing is we we created this pre sophisticated taxonomy with prefixs and postfixs to talk about these things, but in reality we've only got two of them and it's we keep forgetting and we have a hard time discussing this thing. So I'd rather just name them simply some two names for what they are rather than than using the taxonomy. But also like in F I have this proposal of like what if we just tracked as a KPI the percentage of total MRs that come from the community over time? And we would see that dropping. I love that. I love that. Let's do that instead. Okay. But the the the thing the thing why we have this complex thing is because you can game that. You want to game that? You just produce fewer MRs with the engineers at GitLab. So if you drive that really hard and say this is your number one goal, it's very easy to achieve. You just tell all your engineers to produce half. Yeah, so we have we have different metrics to prevent that from happening the same way that like support SLs and Ssat kind of buttress one another. Um I think we're we're robust to that, but simplifying this would make these conversations go. If if you as our CTO don't even understand them, we went overboard. so I'm I supportive. I understand them and I forgot and I was agreeing this stuff this morning I'm like there's a problem with this. and then you just remind me of the context. So yeah, if I can't pull it in my head. Go percentage that come from the community. I love that. It's what all our investors ask about. Let's do that. Okay, cool. So um Lily, if you can work with uh Mack to make that transition, that would be great. and I'll bold the one that we're talking about in F Roman numeral 3. Thanks. Uh I'm on a call. Sorry, I was a bit late. uh uh timeline. we do have PIs on the raw number of community MRs and we can make make the shift. Uh and wider confirming from the definition, I think wider only counts for community and and that's that's what the definition is. Cool. All right, so uh number six then Christopher. Sorry, I was looking up to see if I had the percentage graph because I think we played around with this at one point and had a draft of that. Um probably about five months back if I can remember Lily. Um uh just an FYI uh the month of February if you were looking at any particular metrics particularly in development MR rate. Um uh we haven't had updates in four days. there's apparently a lag issue that's been uh problematic uh for the data team to basically get uh updated updated metrics and they're working on that. Okay. I'm sorry Mac, you got the next one. Uh so yeah, I I there's some some hot data on on the on medication, the the lag later on. Uh, onto onto seven, uh we I said FYI in addition to the KPI status. I'm sorry Mac, I wanted to just touch on the postgress replication issue there real quick. Um I'm trying to get my arms wrapped around it. Um, do we have the right attention to this? This is kind of Eric, I don't know if you were commenting on uh hinting towards this in the last meeting around some of the infrastructure improvements on the product side. I'm just not quite sure who's responsibility it is to focus on getting a handle on some of the constraints we have in replication. Yeah, the what I was mentioning in the in the product key review about an hour ago is I think is sort of like unrelated. Um and so I think the DRI needs to be your kind of data engineering team, but of course there's a dependency on infrastructure because that's where the data is being piped from. They they do own that data source. Yeah, I I'll say for the replication lag on that slave host where I'm sorry, not the on the the uh secondary host where um uh the data is being pulled from. like infrastructure would be the DRI for that. and so um any escalations but I'll I'll own those and I know we have uh an action plan for that as far as creating uh another dedicated host um just for the the data team to pull from. Okay. I did ask uh, I saw that issue and I did talk to uh Craig Gomes a little bit as well on the database side just to see if there's some database improvements and I'm still trying to figure out, you know, if it's truly just um dedicated computational sort of resource as server or if there's actually some some database tuning that needs to occur. Do you have a sense of that? There's so I I'd say it's it's three different things. Um it's having a dedicated host um that doesn't have conflicting query traffic coming from um other other uh workloads. Um there are some uh tuning performance or tuning improvements to be made. And then there's also improvements in and this is where it does maybe relate a little bit to um what the topic was in the in the last uh review basically the the overall uh demand on the database layer from um from .com activities and and like improving those. So it's it's definitely not just one of those things. Um, that one of the the most specific actions uh we're going to take though is separating out and having a dedicated host so that we're just dealing with the the profile of the data engineering traffic on there. um, and and not having conflicting query um, uh conflicting queries uh affect the ability to um uh to update the replication. Okay Steve, I definitely want to partner with you on this one because I don't I think the the demand on those databases is only going to increase. it's not going down. Yeah. And uh I think we need to get I'm still unclear on uh where to focus in to get the biggest bang for the buck. I think if the computational resource dedication that's going to be a good thing but it'll probably going to squeeze the balloon and then the next uh area will will unearth itself. Okay, I'll tell you what I'll put into the infra key review for next week um update on on this issue. Okay. Thank you, Steve. So then back to Mac on seven or yes, seven. Thank you. Uh and Rob was in the incident this morning as well. Uh Ryan just said we have the attention there. Uh number seven, just to provide provide an update on previous conversations. Uh we're continuing to improve uh defect tracking and against SLs. There's a first iteration PI that we are experimenting to show uh percentage of defects meeting um the SLs, uh key findings, S1s are hovering at 80%, S2 at 60. We've been focused uh mostly on S1 and S2 at this point, that's hence why S3 and S4s are are lower. Uh, and this this will likely be the case. We are also in point B are working on the measurement for average uh open bug age. This would give us a a whole picture of what's what's left. Uh if the age goes up or down we are clean the backlog, the average age should go down as well. Uh, there's no PI yet, but I just want to update and ensure that we are on this. Uh, it's not it's not a off track. Uh, number C Craig uh on S2. Yeah, I just I was looking through the the the charts and I I noted that there was a spike in mean time to close and just want to see if you had any insight into that for us. This is the S2s. the S1s looked fine. so. Yeah, and this is where the point be on age uh supplement those charts in the back end helps. Uh so I haven't seen a dip in age nor the count overall. I I think I think it's the ladder. We need to to dig in a bit deeper in that and also the data lag uh I would like to re-evaluate once we have the whole picture once everything is synced in as well. Uh, Christie, uh you have some insights? Yeah, I'm just wondering if part of this could be the fact that we changed the severity across the board for MRs to S2. And so we may have some older bugs in there that hadn't been addressed because they were at a lower severity now we've moved them to S2 and maybe that caused a little spike. Uh, that that could be the case but we did it in a limited fashion. it won't be a huge volume. We also iterated after that to to non priority uh since product owns prioritization so I I wouldn't account it entirely to that. I mean, this this isn't the infra key review, but um I know that they've gotten backed up on on those issues. So if some some good portion of those are are infra created or related then that might be lifting it as well. Uh I could take the the the the deeper dig in and then provide an update next time. I think we need extra debug uh slicing of the data here. Sid, do you would like to go to point eight? Yeah, we are now measuring uh S1, S2 SLO uh achievement with closed bugs. But if you then uh look at the the number of bugs, it's exponential growth. Um and then it would be trivial to just uh to achieve 100% SLO achievement. If you just look at closed bugs, even though there would be a major problem in the company, 99% of all bugs are overdue. As long as I only close ones that are still within the SLO, I'll have great achievement. So I think we shouldn't be looking at the closed bugs. I think we should be looking at open bugs and the entire population, what percentage of those is within the SLO time. I think we're doing it the wrong way. Thanks for the thanks for the feedback. uh uh hence why we wanted to have the average age uh to to measure what's outside in the open. Uh we can make this iteration uh to measure also measure uh focus on the the age of all opened uh including open bugs. This is all something we uh I have discussed with Christopher in the next iteration as well and we happy more than happy to adjust. Uh so the the yeah, go ahead. So average age would get closer to it. It's not what I'm proposing. What I'm proposing is of the open bugs, what percentage is outside of SLO. So display it as a percentage you do now, just do it about the open bugs, not the closed ones. Ah, got it. Okay. The exceeding SLO for open bugs. Yeah, or open bugs that are within SLO. so you have a chart that should go up into the right like everything else. Sounds great. we can take it to the uh the next uh uh data metrics work stream to deliver this. Cool. Thanks. Christopher, yeah. a little tricky Mac, you'll have to figure out how to um because we like to be able to have charts that we can historically reconstruct if we need to. So when tickets close out, you need to go through their history to figure out at this time when it was open, did it breach the SLO or not? That's a good point. This might be much harder computationally. Um so I I totally respect if we can't do it for that reason. Uh cool. Nine Craig. Yeah, I just wanted to ask the team like I I went through all the the key meeting metrics, everything looked in line with prior periods and looked good. Is there anything the team wants to call out especially that we should be watching? Yeah, I'll call out SUS. Um so the good news is in Q4, we had our smallest decline over several quarters. so we only went down by a tenth of a point. Um, the quarter previous was 0.6 or 6/10 of a point and the quarter before that was a full point. So, we see this as an improvement, even though it was still a decline, but it's still a decline. Obviously, we want this actually tracking in an upward direction. We also don't have enough data to know whether or not this is an actual real trend up. So I'm optimistic. I think this is a good thing. We have had a much keener focus on SUS over the past several quarters. so that's why I think, okay, the work that we've done, I think actually is catching up and and getting noticed in SUS, but we got to keep an eye on it. We can't we cannot assume that that's the case. Yeah, and and the bug discussion above, um just kind of points out that like uh we have an underlying um problem right now in our metrics measurement. So if we change the measurements to reflect that then hopefully we're in good shape. if we don't and we flat line and address it uh so that we flat line uh open S1s and S2s, you will see a temporary jump and and uh above SLs and as we clip clear out that backlog over that period of time. And I have point C which is uh similar to infrastructure, we need to get more security work prioritized. We're hearing that from the team, but neither that problem nor that activity is sort of currently reflected in our security metrics. So we have some work to do um long term to to make sure the we see things like that in the metrics in in the measurements that we're making. Uh so back to you sit 10. Yeah, the narrow MR rate seems um significantly below target and maybe I I hoped that it would bounce back from December. I think it bounced back but not back on target. Any any context there what's what's going on? Yeah, so um uh with family and friends days, we actually had some heavier vacation days um in January than we historically have. Uh one thing to note is that um uh we are actually at a higher MR rate. If you look at if you go back the last 18 months, we're actually at a higher narrow MR rate than we were back in uh each month this year. So if you compare uh uh October to October, November to November and and January, I'm sorry, October, November, December and January, uh comparatively to last year. what you'll find is we're between a half point and a 1.5 uh MR rate above uh where we were in the month of previous year. That's that's great context. Thank you, Christopher. Good work. So yeah, so the expectation is is that uh February is a short month. uh we were at I think 16 work days with and family day and the other things. Um obviously I was having power outages in Texas doesn't help things either for the folks who are working in Texas. Um but hopefully the rest of the team is being effective. Um, I was hoping to see a better result right now, but with four or five days particularly around uh release week. Um, that's usually when we see do do see a little bit higher activity. Um, so that's not accounted for yet. Um, but you know, March is March is when I'm expecting to kind of see a real rebound much like we did last year. Awesome. Thanks. The other context I'll give is um we now do time series targets. so when we change the target, you'll see that reflected in the line. So if we were to look back historically here, the goal here was actually lower and Christopher was ambitious and we kept raising it and we kept meeting that. So it should stair step here and we could go back and reconstruct that if we really wanted to. And then ignoring the sort of the the seasonal dip here, um, we raised it to I think 11 and then we realized we're kind of hitting that point of diminishing returns and the right thing to do business wise and this is in our FY22 direction is hold the line at productivity, but start to raise other things related to quality, security, availability and and whatnot. Um, so that's kind of why you're seeing this bump as we raised it and then we realized, okay, that's not the we shouldn't raise it anymore and we brought it back down to 10. So 10 will be the the target going forward. I'm going to try to get better a lot of other things while preventing this from dipping. Cool. And I just want to call out that it's not necess like higher MR rates should also help to address security and quality and other things because you're more productive so you can fix more things. So it's not necessarily opposite. But I I I agree with uh let's hold the line. 10 is 10 is a great number and uh and focus on other uh indicators to improve that makes a ton of sense. Cool, well said. All right, that's it for the agenda. Anyone want to vocalize anything else? Great. Well, thanks everybody and I'm going to go check on my four-year-old and see if she got what whatever she needed. So cheers and talk soon. Thanks Eric.